{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang16393\deflangfe16393{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.21.2510;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\nowidctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang9\f0\fs22\tab\tab\par
\tab\b\fs28 Top 100 PHP interview questions and answers are below\par
\b0\fs22\par
\cf1 Questions : 1 Who is the father of PHP ? \par
\cf0 Answers : 1 Rasmus Lerdorf is known as the father of PHP.  \par
\cf1 Questions : 2 What is the difference between $name and $$name? \par
\cf0  Answers : 2 $name is variable whereas $$name is reference variable \par
like $name=sonia and $$name=singh so $sonia value is singh. \par
\cf1 Questions : 3 How can we submit a form without a submit button?  \par
\cf0 Answer : 3 Java script submit() function is used for submit form without submit button\par
on click call document.formname.submit()  \par
\cf1 Questions : 4 In how many ways we can retrieve the data in the result set of\par
MySQL using PHP?  \par
\cf0 Answer : 4 We can do it by 4 Ways\par
1. mysql_fetch_row. , 2. mysql_fetch_array , 3. mysql_fetch_object\par
4. mysql_fetch_assoc  \par
\cf1 Questions : 5 What is the difference between mysql_fetch_object and\par
mysql_fetch_array?  \cf0\par
Answers : 5 mysql_fetch_object() is similar to mysql_fetch_array(), with one difference -\par
an object is returned, instead of an array. Indirectly, that means that\par
you can only access the data by the field names, and not by their\par
offsets (numbers are illegal property names). \par
\cf1 Questions : 6 What are the differences between Get and post methods.  \par
\cf0 Answers : 6 There are some defference between GET and POST method \par
1. GET Method have some limit like only 2Kb data able to send for request \par
But in POST method unlimited data can we send \par
2. when we use GET method requested data show in url but \par
Not in POST method so POST method is good for send sensetive request \par
\pard\cf1 Questions : 7 How can we extract string "pcds.co.in " from a string "\cf0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://info@pcds.co.in"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2 http://info@pcds.co.in}}}\cf1\f0\fs22\par
using regular expression of PHP?  \par
\cf0 Answers : 7 preg_match("/^http:\\/\\/.+@(.+)$/","http://info@pcds.co.in",$matches);\par
echo $matches[1]; \par
\cf1 Questions : 8 How can we create a database using PHP and MySQL?  \par
\cf0 Answers : 8 We can create MySQL database with the use of\par
mysql_create_db("Database Name") \par
\cf1 Questions : 9 What are the differences between require and include?  \par
\cf0 Answers : 9 Both include and require used to include a file but when included file not found \par
Include send Warning whereas Require send Fatal Error .\par
\cf1 Questions : 10  Can we use include ("xyz.PHP") two times in a PHP page "index.PHP"?\par
\cf0 Answers : 10   Yes we can use include("xyz.php") more than one time in any page. but it create a problem when xyz.php file contain some functions declaration then error will come for already declared function in this file else not a problem like if you want to show same content two time in page then must include it two time not a problem\par
\cf1 Questions : 11   What are the different tables(Engine) present in MySQL, which one is default?  \par
\cf0 Answers : 11  Following tables (Storage Engine) we can create\par
1. MyISAM(The default storage engine IN MYSQL Each MyISAM table is stored on disk in three files. The files have names that begin with the table name and have an extension to indicate the file type. An .frm file stores the table format. The data file has an .MYD (MYData) extension. The index file has an .MYI (MYIndex) extension. )\par
2. InnoDB(InnoDB is a transaction-safe (ACID compliant) storage engine for MySQL that has commit, rollback, and crash-recovery capabilities to protect user data.)\par
3. Merge\par
4. Heap (MEMORY)(The MEMORY storage engine creates tables with contents that are stored in memory. Formerly, these were known as HEAP tables. MEMORY is the preferred term, although HEAP remains supported for backward compatibility. )\par
5. BDB (BerkeleyDB)(Sleepycat Software has provided MySQL with the Berkeley DB transactional storage engine. This storage engine typically is called BDB for short. BDB tables may have a greater chance of surviving crashes and are also capable of COMMIT and ROLLBACK operations on transactions) \par
6. EXAMPLE \par
7. FEDERATED (It is a storage engine that accesses data in tables of remote databases rather than in local tables. )\par
8. ARCHIVE (The ARCHIVE storage engine is used for storing large amounts of data without indexes in a very small footprint. )\par
9. CSV (The CSV storage engine stores data in text files using comma-separated values format.)\par
10. BLACKHOLE (The BLACKHOLE storage engine acts as a "black hole" that accepts data but throws it away and does not store it. Retrievals always return an empty result)  \par
\cf1 Questions : 12  What is use of header() function in php ?  \par
\cf0 Answers : 12 The header() function sends a raw HTTP header to a client.We can use heder() \par
function for redirection of pages. It is important to notice that header() must\par
be called before any actual output is seen.. \par
\cf1 Questions : 13 How can I execute a PHP script using command line?  \par
\cf0 Answers : 13 Just run the PHP CLI (Command Line Interface) program and\par
provide the PHP script file name as the command line argument. \par
\cf1 Questions : 14 Suppose your Zend engine supports the mode <? ?> Then how can u\par
configure your PHP Zend engine to support <?PHP ?> mode ?  \cf0\par
Answers : 14 In php.ini file:\par
set\par
short_open_tag=on\par
to make PHP support .\par
\cf1 Questions : 15 Shopping cart online validation i.e. how can we configure Paypal,\par
etc.?  \par
\cf0 Answers : 15 Nothing more we have to do only redirect to the payPal url after\par
submit all information needed by paypal like amount,adresss etc.  \par
\cf1 Questions : 16 What is meant by nl2br()?  \par
\cf0\highlight3 Answers : 16 Inserts HTML line breaks (<BR />) before all newlines in a string. \par
\cf1\highlight0 Questions : 17 What is htaccess? Why do we use this and Where?  \par
\cf0 Answers : 17 .htaccess files are configuration files of Apache Server \highlight3 which provide\par
a way to make configuration changes on a per-directory basis\highlight0 . A file, \par
containing one or more configuration directives, is placed in a particular\par
document directory, and the directives apply to that directory, and all \par
subdirectories thereof. \par
\cf1 Questions : 18 How we get IP address of client, previous reference page etc ?  \par
\cf0 Answers : 18 By using $_SERVER['REMOTE_ADDR'],$_SERVER['HTTP_REFERER'] etc. \par
\cf1 Questions : 19 What are the reasons for selecting lamp (Linux, apache, MySQL,\par
PHP) instead of combination of other software programs, servers and\par
operating systems?  \par
\cf0 Answers : 19 All of those are open source resource. Security of Linux is more \par
than windows. Apache is a better server that IIS both in\par
functionality and security. MySQL is world most popular open source\par
database. PHP is more faster that asp or any other scripting language. \par
 \cf1 Questions : 20 How can we encrypt and decrypt a data present in a MySQL table\par
using MySQL?  \par
\cf0\par
Answers : 20 AES_ENCRYPT () and AES_DECRYPT () \par
\cf1 Questions : 21 How can we encrypt the username and password using PHP?  \par
\cf0 Answers : 21 The functions in this section perform encryption and decryption, and\par
compression and uncompression: \par
\par
encryption decryption \par
AES_ENCRYT() AES_DECRYPT() \par
ENCODE() DECODE() \par
DES_ENCRYPT() DES_DECRYPT() \par
ENCRYPT() Not available \par
MD5() Not available \par
OLD_PASSWORD() Not available \par
PASSWORD() Not available \par
SHA() or SHA1() Not available \par
Not available UNCOMPRESSED_LENGTH() \par
\cf1 Questions : 22 What are the features and advantages of object-oriented\par
programming?  \par
\cf0 Answers : 22 One of the main advantages of OO programming is its ease of\par
modification; objects can easily be modified and added to a system there\par
by reducing maintenance costs. OO programming is also considered to be\par
better at modeling the real world than is procedural programming. It\par
allows for more complicated and flexible interactions. OO systems are\par
also easier for non-technical personnel to understand and easier for\par
them to participate in the maintenance and enhancement of a system\par
because it appeals to natural human cognition patterns.\par
For some systems, an OO approach can speed development time since many\par
objects are standard across systems and can be reused. Components that\par
manage dates, shipping, shopping carts, etc. can be purchased and easily\par
modified for a specific system \par
\cf1 Questions : 23 What are the differences between procedure-oriented languages and\par
object-oriented languages?  \par
\cf0 Answers : 23 There are lot of difference between procedure language and object oriented like below\par
1>Procedure language easy for new developer but complex to understand whole software as compare to object oriented model\par
2>In Procedure language it is difficult to use design pattern mvc , Singleton pattern etc but in OOP you will be able to develop design pattern\par
3>IN OOP language we will be able to reuse code like Inheritance ,polymorphism etc but this type of thing not available in procedure language on that our Fonda use COPY and PASTE . \par
\cf1\strike Questions : 24 What is the use of friend function?  \par
\pard\nowidctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf0\strike0 Answers : 24 deleted\par
\cf1 Questions : 25 What are the differences between public, private, protected,\par
\strike static, transient, final and volatile?  \par
\cf0\strike0 Answer : 25 Public: Public declared items can be accessed everywhere.\par
Protected: Protected limits access to inherited and parent\par
classes (and to the class that defines the item).\par
Private: Private limits visibility only to the class that defines\par
the item. \par
\pard\nowidctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\tx5580\cf1 Questions : 26 What are the different types of errors in PHP?  \par
\pard\nowidctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf0 Answer : 26 There are three types of errors:\par
1. Notices: These are trivial, non-critical errors that PHP encounters while executing a script \endash  for example, accessing a variable that has not yet been defined. By default, such errors are not displayed to the user at all \endash  although, as you will see, you can change this default behavior.\par
2. Warnings: These are more serious errors \endash  for example, attempting to include() a file which does not exist. By default, these errors are displayed to the user, but they do not result in script termination.\par
3. Fatal errors: These are critical errors \endash  for example, instantiating an object of a non-existent class, or calling a non-existent function. These errors cause the immediate termination of the script, and PHP's default behavior is to display them to the user when they take place. \par
\cf1 Questions : 27 What is the functionality of the function strstr and stristr?  \par
\cf0 Answers : 27 strstr Returns part of string from the first occurrence of needle(sub string that we finding out ) to the end of string. \par
$email= 'sonialouder@gmail.com';\par
$domain = strstr($email, '@');\par
echo $domain; // prints @gmail.com\par
here @ is the needle \par
stristr is case-insensitive means able not able to differenciate between a and A  \par
\cf1\strike Questions : 28 What are the differences between PHP 3 and PHP 4 and PHP 5?  \par
\cf0\strike0 Answer : 28 deleted\par
\cf1 Questions : 29 How can we convert asp pages to PHP pages?  \par
\cf0 Answer : 29 deleted\par
\cf1 Questions : 30 What is the functionality of the function htmlentities?  \par
\cf0 Answer : 30 Convert all applicable characters to HTML entities\par
This function is identical to htmlspecialchars() in all ways, except\par
with htmlentities(), all characters which have HTML character entity\par
equivalents are translated into these entities. \par
\cf1 Questions : 31 How can we get second of the current time using date function?\par
\cf0  Answer : 31 $second = date("s"); \par
\cf1\strike Questions : 32 How can we convert the time zones using PHP?  \par
\cf0\strike0 Answer : 32 deleted \par
\cf1\strike Questions : 33 What is meant by urlencode and urldocode?  \par
\cf0\strike0 Answer : 33 deleted\par
\cf1 Questions : 34 What is the difference between the functions unlink and unset?\cf0\par
Answer : 34 unlink() deletes the given file from the file system.\par
unset() makes a variable undefined. \par
\cf1 Questions : 35 How can we register the variables into a session?  \par
\cf0 Answer : 35 $_SESSION['name'] = "sonia"; \par
\cf1\strike Questions : 36 How can we get the properties (size, type, width, height) of an\cf0\par
\cf1 image using PHP image functions?  \par
\cf0\strike0 Answer : 36 deleted\par
\cf1 Questions : 37 How can we get the browser properties using PHP?  \par
\cf0 Answer : 37 By using \par
$_SERVER['HTTP_USER_AGENT']\par
variable.\par
\cf1 Questions : 38 What is the maximum size of a file that can be uploaded using PHP\par
and how can we change this?  \par
\cf0 Answer : 38 By default the maximum size is 2MB. and we can change the following\par
setup at php.ini  upload_max_filesize = 2M \par
\cf1 Questions : 39 How can we increase the execution time of a PHP script?  \par
\cf0 Answer : 39 by changing the following setup at php.ini max_execution_time = 30\par
; Maximum execution time of each script, in seconds \par
\cf1\strike Questions : 40 How can we take a backup of a MySQL table and how can we restore\par
it. ?  \strike0\par
\cf0 Answer : 40 deleted\par
\cf1 Questions : 41 How can we optimize or increase the speed of a MySQL select\par
query?  \cf0\par
Answer : 41 first of all instead of using select * from table1, use select\par
column1, column2, column3.. from table1\par
Look for the opportunity to introduce index in the table you are\par
querying.\par
use limit keyword if you are looking for any specific number of\par
rows from the result set.\par
\cf1 Questions : 42 How many ways can we get the value of current session id?  \par
\cf0 Answer : 42 session_id() returns the session id for the current session. \par
\cf1 Questions : 43 How can we destroy the session, how can we unset the variable of\par
a session?  \par
\cf0 Answer : 43 session_unregister \emdash  Unregister a global variable from the current\par
session\par
session_unset \emdash  Free all session variables \par
\cf1 Questions : 44 How can we set and destroy the cookie n php?  \par
\cf0 Answer : 44 By using setcookie(name, value, expire, path, domain); function we can set the cookie in php ;\par
Set the cookies in past for destroy. like \par
setcookie("user", "sonia", time()+3600); for set the cookie \par
setcookie("user", "", time()-3600); for destroy or delete the cookies;  \par
 \cf1 Questions : 45 How many ways we can pass the variable through the navigation\par
between the pages?  \par
\cf0 Answer : 45 GET/QueryString\par
POST\par
SESSION\par
\cf1 Questions : 46 What is the difference between ereg_replace() and eregi_replace()?\par
\cf0  Answer : 46 eregi_replace() function is identical to ereg_replace() except that\par
this ignores case distinction when matching alphabetic\par
characters.eregi_replace() function is identical to ereg_replace()\par
except that this ignores case distinction when matching alphabetic\par
characters. \par
\cf1 Questions : 47 What are the different functions in sorting an array?  \par
\cf0 Answer : 47 Sort(), arsort(),\par
asort(), ksort(),\par
natsort(), natcasesort(),\par
rsort(), usort(),\par
array_multisort(), and\par
uksort(). \par
\cf1 Questions : 48 How can we know the count/number of elements of an array?  \par
\cf0 Answer : 48 2 ways\par
a) sizeof($urarray) This function is an alias of count()\par
b) count($urarray) \par
\cf1\strike Questions : 49 what is session_set_save_handler in PHP?  \par
\cf0\strike0 Answer : 49 deleted \par
\cf1 Questions : 50 How can I know that a variable is a number or not using a JavaScript?  \par
\cf0 Answer : 50 bool is_numeric ( mixed var)\par
Returns TRUE if var is a number or a numeric string, FALSE otherwise.or use isNaN(mixed var)The isNaN() function is used to check if a value is not a number. \par
\cf1 Questions : 51 List out some tools through which we can draw E-R diagrams for mysql.  \par
\cf0 Answer : 51 Case Studio\par
Smart Draw \par
\cf1 Questions : 52 How can I retrieve values from one database server and store them\par
in other database server using PHP?  \par
\cf0 Answer : 52 deleted\par
\cf1 Questions : 53 List out the predefined classes in PHP?  \par
\cf0 Answer : 53 Directory\par
stdClass\par
__PHP_Incomplete_Class\par
exception\par
php_user_filter \par
\cf1 Questions : 54 How can I make a script that can be bi-language (supports\par
English, German)?  \par
\cf0 Answer : 54 You can maintain two separate language file for each of the\par
language. all the labels are putted in both language files as variables\par
and assign those variables in the PHP source. on runtime choose the\par
required language option. \par
\cf1 Questions : 55 What are the difference between abstract class and interface?  \par
\cf0 Answer : 55 Abstract class: abstract classes are the class where one or more\par
methods are abstract but not necessarily all method has to be abstract.\par
Abstract methods are the methods, which are declare in its class but not\par
define. The definition of those methods must be in its extending class.\par
Interface: Interfaces are one type of class where all the methods are\par
abstract. That means all the methods only declared but not defined. All\par
the methods must be define by its implemented class. \par
\cf1 Questions : 56 How can we send mail using JavaScript?  \par
\cf0 Answer : 56 JavaScript does not have any networking capabilities as it is\par
designed to work on client site. As a result we can not send mails using\par
JavaScript. But we can call the client side mail protocol mailto\par
via JavaScript to prompt for an email to send. this requires the client\par
to approve it. \par
\cf1 Questions : 57 How can we repair a MySQL table?  \par
\cf0 Answer : 57 The syntex for repairing a MySQL table is\par
REPAIR TABLENAME, [TABLENAME, ], [Quick],[Extended]\par
This command will repair the table specified if the quick is given the\par
MySQL will do a repair of only the index tree if the extended is given\par
it will create index row by row \par
\cf1 Questions : 58 What are the advantages of stored procedures, triggers, indexes?\par
\cf0 Answer : 58 A stored procedure is a set of SQL commands that can be compiled and\par
stored in the server. Once this has been done, clients don't need to\par
keep re-issuing the entire query but can refer to the stored procedure.\par
This provides better overall performance because the query has to be\par
parsed only once, and less information needs to be sent between the\par
server and the client. You can also raise the conceptual level by having\par
libraries of functions in the server. However, stored procedures of\par
course do increase the load on the database server system, as more of\par
the work is done on the server side and less on the client (application)\par
side.Triggers will also be implemented. A trigger is effectively a type of\par
stored procedure, one that is invoked when a particular event occurs.\par
For example, you can install a stored procedure that is triggered each\par
time a record is deleted from a transaction table and that stored\par
procedure automatically deletes the corresponding customer from a\par
customer table when all his transactions are deleted.Indexes are used to find rows with specific column values quickly.\par
Without an index, MySQL must begin with the first row and then read\par
through the entire table to find the relevant rows. The larger the\par
table, the more this costs. If the table has an index for the columns in\par
question, MySQL can quickly determine the position to seek to in the\par
middle of the data file without having to look at all the data. If a\par
table has 1,000 rows, this is at least 100 times faster than reading\par
sequentially. If you need to access most of the rows, it is faster to\par
read sequentially, because this minimizes disk seeks. \par
\cf1 Questions : 59 What is the maximum length of a table name, database name, and\par
fieldname in MySQL?  \par
\cf0 Answer : 59 The following table describes the maximum length for each type of\par
identifier. \par
Identifier Maximum Length\par
(bytes) \par
Database 64 \par
Table 64 \par
Column 64 \par
Index 64 \par
Alias 255 \par
There are some restrictions on the characters that may appear in\par
identifiers:\par
\cf1 Questions : 60 How many values can the SET function of MySQL take?  \par
\cf0 Answer : 60 MySQL set can take zero or more values but at the maximum it can\par
take 64 values \par
\cf1 Questions : 61 What are the other commands to know the structure of table using\par
MySQL commands except explain command?  \par
\cf0 Answer : 61 describe Table-Name; \par
\cf1 Questions : 62 How many tables will create when we create table, what are they?\cf0\par
Answer : 62 The '.frm' file stores the table definition.\par
The data file has a '.MYD' (MYData) extension.\par
The index file has a '.MYI' (MYIndex) extension, \par
\cf1 Questions : 63 What is the purpose of the following files having extensions 1) .frm\par
2) .myd 3) .myi? What do these files contain?  \par
\cf0 Answer : 63 In MySql, the default table type is MyISAM.\par
Each MyISAM table is stored on disk in three files. The files have names\par
that begin with the table name and have an extension to indicate the\par
file type.\par
The '.frm' file stores the table definition.\par
The data file has a '.MYD' (MYData) extension.\par
The index file has a '.MYI' (MYIndex) extension, \par
\cf1 Questions : 64 What is maximum size of a database in MySQL?  \par
\cf0 Answer : 64 If the operating system or filesystem places a limit on the number\par
of files in a directory, MySQL is bound by that constraint.The efficiency of the operating system in handling large numbers of\par
files in a directory can place a practical limit on the number of tables\par
in a database. If the time required to open a file in the directory\par
increases significantly as the number of files increases, database\par
performance can be adversely affected.\par
The amount of available disk space limits the number of tables.\par
MySQL 3.22 had a 4GB (4 gigabyte) limit on table size. With the MyISAM\par
storage engine in MySQL 3.23, the maximum table size was increased to\par
65536 terabytes (2567 \endash  1 bytes). With this larger allowed table size,\par
the maximum effective table size for MySQL databases is usually\par
determined by operating system constraints on file sizes, not by MySQL\par
internal limits.The InnoDB storage engine maintains InnoDB tables within a tablespace\par
that can be created from several files. This allows a table to exceed\par
the maximum individual file size. The tablespace can include raw disk\par
partitions, which allows extremely large tables. The maximum tablespace\par
size is 64TB.\par
The following table lists some examples of operating system file-size\par
limits. This is only a rough guide and is not intended to be definitive.\par
For the most up-to-date information, be sure to check the documentation\par
specific to your operating system.\par
Operating System File-size LimitLinux 2.2-Intel 32-bit 2GB (LFS: 4GB)\par
Linux 2.4+ (using ext3 filesystem) 4TB\par
Solaris 9/10 16TB\par
NetWare w/NSS filesystem 8TB\par
Win32 w/ FAT/FAT32 2GB/4GB\par
Win32 w/ NTFS 2TB (possibly larger)\par
MacOS X w/ HFS+ 2TB \par
\cf1 Questions : 65 Give the syntax of Grant and Revoke commands?  \par
\cf0 Answer : 65 The generic syntax for grant is as following\par
> GRANT [rights] on [database/s] TO [username@hostname] IDENTIFIED BY\par
[password]\par
now rights can be\par
a) All privileges\par
b) combination of create, drop, select, insert, update and delete etc.We can grant rights on all databse by using *.* or some specific\par
database by database.* or a specific table by database.table_name\par
username@hotsname can be either username@localhost, username@hostname\par
and username@%\par
where hostname is any valid hostname and % represents any name, the *.*\par
any condition\par
password is simply the password of userThe generic syntax for revoke is as following\par
> REVOKE [rights] on [database/s] FROM [username@hostname]\par
now rights can be as explained above\par
a) All privileges\par
b) combination of create, drop, select, insert, update and delete etc.\par
username@hotsname can be either username@localhost, username@hostname\par
and username@%\par
where hostname is any valid hostname and % represents any name, the *.*\par
any condition \par
\cf1 Questions : 66 Explain Normalization concept?  \par
\cf0 Answer : 66 The normalization process involves getting our data to conform to\par
three progressive normal forms, and a higher level of normalization\par
cannot be achieved until the previous levels have been achieved (there\par
are actually five normal forms, but the last two are mainly academic and\par
will not be discussed).First Normal FormThe First Normal Form (or 1NF) involves removal of redundant data\par
from horizontal rows. We want to ensure that there is no duplication of\par
data in a given row, and that every column stores the least amount of\par
information possible (making the field atomic).Second Normal FormWhere the First Normal Form deals with redundancy of data across a\par
horizontal row, Second Normal Form (or 2NF) deals with redundancy of\par
data in vertical columns. As stated earlier, the normal forms are\par
progressive, so to achieve Second Normal Form, your tables must already\par
be in First Normal Form.Third Normal Form \par
I have a confession to make; I do not often use Third Normal Form. In\par
Third Normal Form we are looking for data in our tables that is not\par
fully dependant on the primary key, but dependant on another value in\par
the table\par
\cf1 Questions : 67 How can we find the number of rows in a table using MySQL?  \par
\cf0 Answer : 67 Use this for mysql\par
>SELECT COUNT(*) FROM table_name; \par
\cf1 Questions : 68 How can we find the number of rows in a result set using PHP?  \par
\cf0 Answer : 68 $result = mysql_query($sql, $db_link);\par
$num_rows = mysql_num_rows($result);\par
echo "$num_rows rows found"; \par
\cf1 Questions : 69 How many ways we can we find the current date using MySQL?  \par
\cf0 Answer : 69 SELECT CURDATE();\par
CURRENT_DATE() = CURDATE()\par
for time use\par
SELECT CURTIME();\par
CURRENT_TIME() = CURTIME() \par
\cf1 Questions : 70 What are the advantages and disadvantages of Cascading Style\par
Sheets?  \par
\cf0 Answer : 70 External Style SheetsAdvantagesCan control styles for multiple documents at once. Classes can be\par
created for use on multiple HTML element types in many documents.\par
Selector and grouping methods can be used to apply styles under complex\par
contextsDisadvantagesAn extra download is required to import style information for each\par
document The rendering of the document may be delayed until the external\par
style sheet is loaded Becomes slightly unwieldy for small quantities of\par
style definitionsEmbedded Style Sheets\par
\ul Advantages\ulnone\b\par
\b0 Classes can be created for use on multiple tag types in the document.\par
Selector and grouping methods can be used to apply styles under complex\par
contexts. No additional downloads necessary to receive style information\par
\ul Disadvantages\ulnone\par
This method can not control styles for multiple documents at once\par
\ul\b\fs24 Inline Styles\ulnone\fs22\par
\ul\b0 Advantages\ulnone\par
Useful for small quantities of style definitions. Can override other\par
style specification methods at the local level so only exceptions need\par
to be listed in conjunction with other style methods\par
\ul Disadvantages\ulnone\par
Does not distance style information from content (a main goal of\par
SGML/HTML). Can not control styles for multiple documents at once.\par
Author can not create or control classes of elements to control multiple\par
element types within the document. Selector grouping methods can not be\par
used to create complex element addressing scenarios\par
\cf1 Questions : 71 What type of inheritance that PHP supports?  \par
\cf0 Answer : 71 In PHP an extended class is always dependent on a single base class,\par
that is, multiple inheritance is not supported. Classes are extended\par
using the keyword 'extends'.     \par
\cf1 Questions : 72 What is the difference between Primary Key and\par
Unique key?  \par
\cf0 Answer : 72 Primary Key: A column in a table whose values uniquely identify the\par
rows in the table. A primary key value cannot be NULL. \par
Unique Key: Unique Keys are used to uniquely identify each row in the\par
table. There can be one and only one row for each unique key value. So\par
NULL can be a unique key.There can be only one primary key for a table but there can be more\par
than one unique for a table.\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf1 Question : 73 what is garbage collection? default time ? refresh time?  \par
\pard\nowidctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf0 Answer : 73 Garbage Collection is an automated part of PHP , If the Garbage Collection process runs, it then analyzes any files in the /tmp for any session files that have not been accessed in a certain amount of time and physically deletes them. Garbage Collection process only runs in the default session save directory, which is /tmp. If you opt to save your sessions in a different directory, the Garbage Collection process will ignore it. the Garbage Collection process does not differentiate between which sessions belong to whom when run. This is especially important note on shared web servers. If the process is run, it deletes ALL files that have not been accessed in the directory. There are 3 PHP.ini variables, which deal with the garbage collector: PHP ini value name default session.gc_maxlifetime 1440 seconds or 24 minutes session.gc_probability 1 session.gc_divisor 100  \par
\cf1 Questions : 74 What are the advantages/disadvantages of MySQL and PHP?  \par
\cf0 Answer : 74 Both of them are open source software (so free of cost), support\par
cross platform. php is faster then ASP and JSP.     \par
\cf1 Questions : 75 What is the difference between GROUP BY and ORDER BY in Sql?  \par
\cf0 Answer : 75 \b ORDER BY [col1],[col2],\'85,[coln]:\b0  Tels DBMS according to what columns\par
it should sort the result. If two rows will hawe the same value in col1\par
it will try to sort them according to col2 and so on.\par
\b GROUP BY [col1],[col2],\'85,[coln]:\b0 Tels DBMS to group results with same value of\par
column col1. You can use COUNT(col1), SUM(col1), AVG(col1) with it, if\par
you want to count all items in group, sum all values or view average     \par
\cf1 Questions : 76 What is the difference between char and varchar data types?  \par
\cf0 Answer : 76 Set char to occupy n bytes and it will take n bytes even if u r\par
storing a value of n-m bytes\par
Set varchar to occupy n bytes and it will take only the required space\par
and will not use the n bytes\par
eg. name char(15) will waste 10 bytes if we store 'romharshan', if each char\par
takes a byte\par
eg. name varchar(15) will just use 5 bytes if we store 'romharshan', if each\par
char takes a byte. rest 10 bytes will be free. \par
\cf1 Questions : 77 What is the functionality of md5 function in PHP?  \par
\cf0 Answer : 77 Calculate the md5 hash of a string. The hash is a 32-character\par
hexadecimal number. I use it to generate keys which I use to identify\par
users etc. If I add random no techniques to it the md5 generated now\par
will be totally different for the same string I am using. \par
\cf1 Questions : 78 How can I load data from a text file into a table?  \par
\cf0 Answer : 78 you can use LOAD DATA INFILE file_name; syntax to load data\par
from a text file. but you have to make sure thata) data is delimited\par
b) columns and data matched correctly \par
\cf1 Questions : 79 How can we know the number of days between two given dates using\par
MySQL?  \par
\cf0 Answer : 79 SELECT DATEDIFF("2007-03-07","2005-01-01"); \par
\cf1 Questions : 80 How can we know the number of days between two given dates using PHP?  \par
\cf0 Answer : 80 $date1 = date("Y-m-d");\par
$date2 = "2006-08-15";\par
$days = (strtotime($date1) - strtotime($date2)) / (60 * 60 * 24); \par
\cf1 Questions : 81 How we load all classes that placed in different directory in one PHP File , means how to do auto load classes  \par
\cf0 Answer : 81 \par
by using spl_autoload_register('autoloader::funtion');\par
Like below \par
class autoloader\par
\{\par
public static function moduleautoloader($class)\par
\{\par
$path = $_SERVER['DOCUMENT_ROOT'] . "/modules/\{$class\}.php";\par
if (is_readable($path)) require $path;\par
\}\par
public static function daoautoloader($class)\par
\{\par
$path = $_SERVER['DOCUMENT_ROOT'] . "/dataobjects/\{$class\}.php";\par
if (is_readable($path)) require $path;\par
\}\par
public static function includesautoloader($class)\par
\{\par
$path = $_SERVER['DOCUMENT_ROOT'] . "/includes/\{$class\}.php";\par
if (is_readable($path)) require $path;\par
\}\par
\}\par
spl_autoload_register('autoloader::includesautoloader');\par
spl_autoload_register('autoloader::daoautoloader');\par
spl_autoload_register('autoloader::moduleautoloader');\par
Questions : 82 How many types of Inheritances used in PHP and how we achieve it  \par
Answer : 82 As far PHP concern it only support single Inheritance in scripting.\par
we can also use interface to achieve multiple inheritance.  \par
\cf1 Questions : 83 PHP how to know user has read the email?  \cf0\par
Answers : 83 Using Disposition-Notification-To: in mailheader we can get read receipt.\par
Add the possibility to define a read receipt when sending an email.\par
It\rquote s quite straightforward, just edit email.php, and add this at vars definitions:\par
var $readReceipt = null;\par
And then, at \lquote createHeader\rquote  function add:\par
if (!empty($this->readReceipt)) \{ \par
$this->__header .= \lquote Disposition-Notification-To: \lquote  . $this->__formatAddress($this->readReceipt) . $this->_newLine; \par
\}  \par
\cf1 Questions : 84 What are default session time and path?  \par
\cf0 Answers : 84 default session time in PHP is 1440 seconds or 24 minutes\par
Default session save path id temporary folder /tmp  \par
\cf1 Questions : 85 how to track user logged out or not? when user is idle ?  \par
\cf0 Answers : 85 By checking the session variable exist or not while loading th page. As the session will exist longer as till browser closes. The default behaviour for sessions is to keep a session open indefinitely and only to expire a session when the browser is closed. This behaviour can be changed in the php.ini file by altering the line session.cookie_lifetime = 0 to a value in seconds. If you wanted the session to finish in 5 minutes you would set this to session.cookie_lifetime = 300 and restart your httpd server.      \par
\cf1 Questions : 86 how to track no of user logged in ?  \cf0\par
Answers : 86 whenever a user logs in track the IP, userID etc..and store it in a DB with a active flag while log out or sesion expire make it inactive. At any time by counting the no: of active records we can get the no: of visitors.  \par
\cf1 Questions : 87 in PHP for pdf which library used?  \cf0\par
Answers : 87 The PDF functions in PHP can create PDF files using the PDFlib library With version 6, PDFlib offers an object-oriented API for PHP 5 in addition to the function-oriented API for PHP 4. There is also the \'bb Panda module. FPDF is a PHP class which allows to generate PDF files with pure PHP, that is to say without using the PDFlib library. F from FPDF stands for Free: you may use it for any kind of usage and modify it to suit your needs. FPDF requires no extension (except zlib to activate compression and GD for GIF support) and works with PHP4 and PHP5.  \par
\cf1 Questions : 88 for image work which library?  \par
\cf0 Answers : 88 we will need to compile PHP with the GD library of image functions for this to work. GD and PHP may also require other libraries, depending on which image formats you want to work with.  \par
\cf1 Questions : 89 what is design pattern? singleton pattern? \par
\cf0 Answers : 89 A deleted\par
\cf1 Questions : 90 what are magic methods?  \cf0\par
Answers : 90 Magic methods are the members functions that is available to all the instance of class Magic methods always starts with "__". Eg. __construct All magic methods needs to be declared as public To use magic method they should be defined within the class or program scope Various Magic Methods used in PHP 5 are: __construct() __destruct() __set() __get() __call() __toString() __sleep() __wakeup() __isset() __unset() __autoload() __clone()  \par
\cf1 Questions : 91 what is magic quotes?  \par
\cf0 Answers : 91 Magic Quotes is a process that automagically escapes ncoming data to the PHP script. It\rquote s preferred to code with magic quotes off and to instead escape the data at runtime, as needed. This feature has been DEPRECATED as of PHP 5.3.0 and REMOVED as of PHP 6.0.0. Relying on this feature is highly discouraged.  \par
\cf1 Questions : 92 what is cross site scripting? SQL injection?  \par
\cf0 Answers : 92 Cross-site scripting (XSS) is a type of computer security vulnerability typically found in web applications which allow code injection by malicious web users into the web pages viewed by other users. Examples of such code include HTML code and client-side scripts. SQL injection is a code injection technique that exploits a security vulnerability occurring in the database layer of an application. The vulnerability is present when user input is either incorrectly filtered for string literal escape characters embedded in SQL statements or user input is not strongly typed and thereby unexpectedly executed  \par
\cf1 Questions : 93 what is URL rewriting? \cf0\par
Answers : 93 Using URL rewriting we can convert dynamic URl to static URL Static URLs are known to be better than Dynamic URLs because of a number of reasons 1. Static URLs typically Rank better in Search Engines. 2. Search Engines are known to index the content of dynamic pages a lot slower compared to static pages. 3. Static URLs are always more friendlier looking to the End Users. along with this we can use URL rewriting in adding variables [cookies] to the URL to handle the sessions.  \par
\cf1 Questions : 94 what is the major php security hole? how to avoid?  \par
\cf0 Answers : 94 1. Never include, require, or otherwise open a file with a filename based on user input, without thoroughly checking it first. \par
2. Be careful with eval() Placing user-inputted values into the eval() function can be extremely dangerous. You essentially give the malicious user the ability to execute any command he or she wishes! \par
3. Be careful when using register_globals = ON It was originally designed to make programming in PHP easier (and that it did), but misuse of it often led to security holes \par
4. Never run unescaped queries \par
5. For protected areas, use sessions or validate the login every time. \par
6. If you don\rquote t want the file contents to be seen, give the file a .php extension.  \par
\cf1 Questions : 95 whether PHP supports Microsoft SQL server ?  \cf0\par
Answers : 95 The SQL Server Driver for PHP v1.0 is designed to enable reliable, scalable integration with SQL Server for PHP applications deployed on the Windows platform. The Driver for PHP is a PHP 5 extension that allows the reading and writing of SQL Server data from within PHP scripts. using MSSQL or ODBC modules we can access Microsoft SQL server.  \par
\cf1 Questions : 96 what is MVC? why its been used?  \cf0\par
Answers : 96 Model-view-controller (MVC) is an architectural pattern used in software engineering. Successful use of the pattern isolates business logic from user interface considerations, resulting in an application where it is easier to modify either the visual appearance of the application or the underlying business rules without affecting the other. In MVC, the model represents the information (the data) of the application; the view corresponds to elements of the user interface such as text, checkbox items, and so forth; and the controller manages the communication of data and the business rules used to manipulate the data to and from the model. WHY ITS NEEDED IS 1 Modular separation of function 2 Easier to maintain 3 View-Controller separation means:\par
A \emdash  Tweaking design (HTML) without altering code B \emdash  Web design staff can modify UI without understanding code \par
\cf1 Questions : 97 what is framework? how it works? what is advantage? \par
\cf0 Answers : 97 In general, a framework is a real or conceptual structure intended to serve as a support or guide for the building of something that expands the structure into something useful. Advantages : Consistent Programming Model Direct Support for Security Simplified Development Efforts Easy Application Deployment and Maintenance  \par
\cf1 Questions : 98 what is CURL?  \cf0\par
Answers : 98 CURL means Client URL Library\par
curl is a command line tool for transferring files with URL syntax, supporting FTP, FTPS, HTTP, HTTPS, SCP, SFTP, TFTP, TELNET, DICT, LDAP, LDAPS and FILE. curl supports SSL certificates, HTTP POST, HTTP PUT, FTP uploading, HTTP form based upload, proxies, cookies, user+password authentication (Basic, Digest, NTLM, Negotiate, kerberos\'85), file transfer resume, proxy tunneling and a busload of other useful tricks.\par
CURL allows you to connect and communicate to many different types of servers with many different types of protocols. libcurl currently supports the http, https, ftp, gopher, telnet, dict, file, and ldap protocols. libcurl also supports HTTPS certificates, HTTP POST, HTTP PUT, FTP uploading (this can also be done with PHP\rquote s ftp extension), HTTP form based upload, proxies, cookies, and user+password authentication.  \par
\cf1 Questions : 99 what is PDO ?  \cf0\par
Answers : 99 The PDO ( PHP Data Objects ) extension defines a lightweight, consistent interface for accessing databases in PHP. if you are using the PDO API, you could switch the database server you used, from say PgSQL to MySQL, and only need to make minor changes to your PHP code. \par
While PDO has its advantages, such as a clean, simple, portable API but its main disadvantage is that it doesn't allow you to use all of the advanced features that are available in the latest versions of MySQL server. For example, PDO does not allow you to use MySQL's support for Multiple Statements.\par
Just need to use below code for connect mysql using PDO\par
try \{\par
$dbh = new PDO("mysql:host=$hostname;dbname=databasename", $username, $password);\par
$sql = "SELECT * FROM employee";\par
foreach ($dbh->query($sql) as $row)\par
\{\par
print $row['employee_name'] .' - '. $row['employee_age'] ;\par
\}\par
\}\par
catch(PDOException $e)\par
\{\par
echo $e->getMessage();\par
\}  \par
\cf1 Questions : 100 What is PHP's mysqli Extension?  \par
\cf0 Answers : 100 The mysqli extension, or as it is sometimes known, the MySQL improved extension, was developed to take advantage of new features found in MySQL systems versions 4.1.3 and newer. The mysqli extension is included with PHP versions 5 and later. \par
The mysqli extension has a number of benefits, the key enhancements over the mysql extension being: \par
=>Object-oriented interface \par
=>Support for Prepared Statements \par
=>Support for Multiple Statements \par
=>Support for Transactions \par
=>Enhanced debugging capabilities \par
 \par
}
 